README.md, before:

RadReveal
=========

#This is not quite ready to use.  Check back soon!

**Reveal.js add-ons: a JavaScript library to help you extend [Reveal.js - the HTML Presentation Framework](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/).**

[Reveal.js](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/) rocks!  Web Developers seem to love Reveal.js, as evidenced by the fact that every other presentation on JavaScript seems to use it.  Personally, I love Reveal.js because it is hackable.

But not a lot of people customize or extend it -- despite the fact that Reveal.js builds in extensibility.  Or, if people are extending Reveal.js, they aren't sharing!

Maybe that's because, the out of the box, Reveal.js is not _easy_ to extend...

##The solution? RadReveal

I put together RadReveal after noticing that every presentation I was doing had some level of customization, and the types of things I was doing had a lot in common.  So I consolidated what I'd done into a simple to use library, RadReveal.

RadReveal provides these benefits.

* Makes customizing Reveal.js easy.
* Attach behaviors to slides using data attributes.
* Encourages small, shareable packages.

To get a better idea of how this works <a href="http://joelarson4.github.io/radReveal/demo.html#/">check out the demo slideshow</a>.

##API JsDoc for RadReveal

You may want to to skip to [the API documentation for the library](https://github.com/joelarson4/radReveal/blob/master/radReveal.md).

##Simple example

What does an add-on look like?

`example.js` - the addon script

    var RadReveal = require('rad-reveal');

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      initialize: function(radConfig, slides) {
        for(var s = 0, len = slides.length; s < len; s++) {
          slides[s].className += ' ' + radConfig.addClass;
        }
      }
    });

`index.html` modifications for initializing RadReveal and Reveal.js

    ...
    <script src="node_modules/reveal.js/lib/js/head.min.js"></script>
    <script src="node_modules/reveal.js/js/reveal.js"></script>
    <script src="node_modules/rad-reveal/build/radReveal.min.js"></script>
    ...
    RadReveal.initialize({ //replace Reveal.initialize w/ RadReveal.initialize
      ...normal Reveal configuration goes here
      dependencies: [
        { 
          src: 'somepath/example.js', 
          radName: 'example',
          radConfig: { addClass: 'example' } 
        }
        ...other plugins go here
      ]
    });
    ...

So what happens when you run this?

1. `RadReveal.initialize` calls `Reveal.initialize` for you, passing in the configuration.
2. `Reveal.initialize` loads dependencies, including `rad-example.js`.
3. The example add-on registers itself with an `initialize` function.
4. After Reveal is initialized, RadReveal triggers example's `initialize` function.
5. When calling `initialize`, RadReveal passes in the `radConfig` value and all slides defined.
6. `example` add-on does whatever it wants to.  In this example, the add-on appends a class `example` to every slide.

##Beyond initialize

You can run your code only for certain slides with an attribute by using `attributeEventListeners`.

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      attributeEventListeners: {
        'data-rad-example': {
          setup: someFunction
        }
      }
    });

Each slide with the `data-rad-example` attribute will have `someFunction` called after RadReveal initialization completes. 

The listener function is called with four arguments:

* `attrVal` - the value of the attribute for this slide.
* `slideObj` - an object representing the slide.
* `event` - the event object.
* `radEventName` - the name of the event.

You could use this to do something to the slide element itself.  For example, we could add a class based on the value of the attribute.

    function addTheClass(attrVal, slideObj, event, radEventName) {
      slideObj.element.className += ' ' + attrVal;
    }

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      attributeEventListeners: {
        'data-rad-example': {
          setup: addTheClass
        }
      }
    });

So, this slide:

    <section data-rad-example="totallyRad">

would end up having an additional class of `totallyRad` added to it:

    <section data-rad-example="totallyRad" class="totallyRad">
    
which is a silly example but illustrates the point.

##Trigger something upon showing/hiding a slide

You can also register to run something on showing/arriving or hiding/leaving a slide with an attribute.

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      attributeEventListeners: {
        'data-rad-example': {
          shown: anotherFunction,
          hidden: andAnotherFunction
        }
      }
    });

This means that `anotherFunction` will run each time a slide is displayed with a `data-rad-example` attribute, and then when you leave that slide `andAnotherFunction` will run.

##The functionRunner example add-on.

The core RadReveal repo includes `functionRunner`, a simple add-on that triggers a function to run for any slide with a `data-rad-functionrunner-{eventName}` attribute. 
There is also [API documentation for functionRunner](https://github.com/joelarson4/radReveal/blob/master/functionRunner.md).

For example, here is a slide with a `data-rad-functionrunner-setup` attr:

    <section data-rad-functionrunner-setup='{ "root" : "bar", "func" : "baz" }'>
    
and the page has a (global) object defined:

    var bar = {
      value: 'Hello world!',
      baz: function(slideObj, event, radEventName) {
        var span = document.createElement('span');
        span.innerHTML = radEventName + ': ' + this.value;
        slideObj.element.appendChild(span);
      }
    }

Together this results in `setup: Hello world!` text being appended to the slide one time at setup (before any slides are shown).

You can also pass arguments through a functionRunner attribute.  This slide has a `data-rad-functionrunner-shown` attr:

	<section data-rad-functionrunner-shown='{ "func" : "foo", "args": ["shown", "2"] }'>

and the page has a (global) function defined:

    function foo(arg0, arg1, slideObj, event, radEventName) {
      var span = document.createElement('span');
      span.className = 'functionRunnerAdded';
      span.innerHTML =  radEventName + ': ' + arg0 + ' at ' + arg1;
      slideObj.element.appendChild(span);
    }
    
which results in `shown: shown at 2` being appending to the slide every time it is shown.

Likewise you could use the attribute name `data-rad-functionrunner-hidden` to run a function when leaving the slide.

You also can use the same attributes on inner/vertical slides.

##More addons coming

* I have a several other addons in prototype that I will clean up and release (as separate repos) soon.
* I will list these on main RadReveal README.
* And hopefully remember to update this slide!

##Please write your own!

The dream would be a tiny ecosystem of well written addons that folks can use to make **rad** presentations.

Commit message:

Adding note about browser support

README.md, after:

RadReveal
=========

#This is not quite ready to use.  Check back soon!

**Reveal.js add-ons: a JavaScript library to help you extend [Reveal.js - the HTML Presentation Framework](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/).**

[Reveal.js](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/) rocks!  Web Developers seem to love Reveal.js, as evidenced by the fact that every other presentation on JavaScript seems to use it.  Personally, I love Reveal.js because it is hackable.

But not a lot of people customize or extend it -- despite the fact that Reveal.js builds in extensibility.  Or, if people are extending Reveal.js, they aren't sharing!

Maybe that's because, the out of the box, Reveal.js is not _easy_ to extend...

##The solution? RadReveal

I put together RadReveal after noticing that every presentation I was doing had some level of customization, and the types of things I was doing had a lot in common.  So I consolidated what I'd done into a simple to use library, RadReveal.

RadReveal provides these benefits.

* Makes customizing Reveal.js easy.
* Attach behaviors to slides using data attributes.
* Encourages small, shareable packages.

To get a better idea of how this works <a href="http://joelarson4.github.io/radReveal/demo.html#/">check out the demo slideshow</a>.

##API JsDoc for RadReveal

You may want to to skip to [the API documentation for the library](https://github.com/joelarson4/radReveal/blob/master/radReveal.md).

##Simple example

What does an add-on look like?

`example.js` - the addon script

    var RadReveal = require('rad-reveal');

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      initialize: function(radConfig, slides) {
        for(var s = 0, len = slides.length; s < len; s++) {
          slides[s].className += ' ' + radConfig.addClass;
        }
      }
    });

`index.html` modifications for initializing RadReveal and Reveal.js

    ...
    <script src="node_modules/reveal.js/lib/js/head.min.js"></script>
    <script src="node_modules/reveal.js/js/reveal.js"></script>
    <script src="node_modules/rad-reveal/build/radReveal.min.js"></script>
    ...
    RadReveal.initialize({ //replace Reveal.initialize w/ RadReveal.initialize
      ...normal Reveal configuration goes here
      dependencies: [
        { 
          src: 'somepath/example.js', 
          radName: 'example',
          radConfig: { addClass: 'example' } 
        }
        ...other plugins go here
      ]
    });
    ...

So what happens when you run this?

1. `RadReveal.initialize` calls `Reveal.initialize` for you, passing in the configuration.
2. `Reveal.initialize` loads dependencies, including `rad-example.js`.
3. The example add-on registers itself with an `initialize` function.
4. After Reveal is initialized, RadReveal triggers example's `initialize` function.
5. When calling `initialize`, RadReveal passes in the `radConfig` value and all slides defined.
6. `example` add-on does whatever it wants to.  In this example, the add-on appends a class `example` to every slide.

##Beyond initialize

You can run your code only for certain slides with an attribute by using `attributeEventListeners`.

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      attributeEventListeners: {
        'data-rad-example': {
          setup: someFunction
        }
      }
    });

Each slide with the `data-rad-example` attribute will have `someFunction` called after RadReveal initialization completes. 

The listener function is called with four arguments:

* `attrVal` - the value of the attribute for this slide.
* `slideObj` - an object representing the slide.
* `event` - the event object.
* `radEventName` - the name of the event.

You could use this to do something to the slide element itself.  For example, we could add a class based on the value of the attribute.

    function addTheClass(attrVal, slideObj, event, radEventName) {
      slideObj.element.className += ' ' + attrVal;
    }

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      attributeEventListeners: {
        'data-rad-example': {
          setup: addTheClass
        }
      }
    });

So, this slide:

    <section data-rad-example="totallyRad">

would end up having an additional class of `totallyRad` added to it:

    <section data-rad-example="totallyRad" class="totallyRad">
    
which is a silly example but illustrates the point.

##Trigger something upon showing/hiding a slide

You can also register to run something on showing/arriving or hiding/leaving a slide with an attribute.

    RadReveal.register({
      name: 'example',
      attributeEventListeners: {
        'data-rad-example': {
          shown: anotherFunction,
          hidden: andAnotherFunction
        }
      }
    });

This means that `anotherFunction` will run each time a slide is displayed with a `data-rad-example` attribute, and then when you leave that slide `andAnotherFunction` will run.

##The functionRunner example add-on.

The core RadReveal repo includes `functionRunner`, a simple add-on that triggers a function to run for any slide with a `data-rad-functionrunner-{eventName}` attribute. 
There is also [API documentation for functionRunner](https://github.com/joelarson4/radReveal/blob/master/functionRunner.md).

For example, here is a slide with a `data-rad-functionrunner-setup` attr:

    <section data-rad-functionrunner-setup='{ "root" : "bar", "func" : "baz" }'>
    
and the page has a (global) object defined:

    var bar = {
      value: 'Hello world!',
      baz: function(slideObj, event, radEventName) {
        var span = document.createElement('span');
        span.innerHTML = radEventName + ': ' + this.value;
        slideObj.element.appendChild(span);
      }
    }

Together this results in `setup: Hello world!` text being appended to the slide one time at setup (before any slides are shown).

You can also pass arguments through a functionRunner attribute.  This slide has a `data-rad-functionrunner-shown` attr:

	<section data-rad-functionrunner-shown='{ "func" : "foo", "args": ["shown", "2"] }'>

and the page has a (global) function defined:

    function foo(arg0, arg1, slideObj, event, radEventName) {
      var span = document.createElement('span');
      span.className = 'functionRunnerAdded';
      span.innerHTML =  radEventName + ': ' + arg0 + ' at ' + arg1;
      slideObj.element.appendChild(span);
    }
    
which results in `shown: shown at 2` being appending to the slide every time it is shown.

Likewise you could use the attribute name `data-rad-functionrunner-hidden` to run a function when leaving the slide.

You also can use the same attributes on inner/vertical slides.

##Browser support
I need to put more effort into formalizing my policy and approach on this, as well as testing IE.  Currently I am manually testing this in recent versions of Chrome (40.0) and Firefox (31.4), and running automated tests in PhantomJS (1.9.8).  

I am making an assumption that devs using Reveal.js are able to keep fairly up to date with browsers.  I realize this limits slide-sharing capabilities but I think that's a tradeoff worth making.  I'm also very open to help figuring out a better approach.  Please feel free to file an issue and tell me why I'm wrong and what I can do better!

##More addons coming

* I have a several other addons in prototype that I will clean up and release (as separate repos) soon.
* I will list these on main RadReveal README.
* And hopefully remember to update this slide!

##Please write your own!

The dream would be a tiny ecosystem of well written addons that folks can use to make **rad** presentations.
